Sakila Database:

1) Which actors have the first name ‘Scarlett’?
select * from actor where first_name = 'scarlett';

2) Which actors have the last name ‘Johansson’?
select * from actor where last_name = 'Johansson';

3) Which last names are not repeated?
select last_name from actor group by last_name having count(last_name) = 1;

4) Which last names appear more than once?
select last_name, count(last_name) from actor group by last_name having count(last_name) > 1;

5) What is the average running time of all the films in the sakila DB?
select avg(length) from film;

6) How many drama films exist in the database? (Use only the film table for this exercise)


7) How many action films exist in the database? (Use only the film table for this exercise)

8) Create a query returning 1 if there are more action films, and 0 if there are more drama
films (Use only the film table for this exercise)
9) How many customers are not active?
10)Write a query that would remove all non-active customers (just write, do not execute, or
execute on a copy of the schema)
11) How many people are working at the store? (Hint: check the staff table)
12)How many Actors are named "Dan"?
13)Show all the actors whose first name begins with "D".
14)Create a query that returns 1 if there's an even number of actors that start with "D", and
0 if there's an odd number of actors that start with "D".
15)How many actors have a 3 letter first name?
16)Show all the actors with a 4 letter first name that ends with "A"
17) What film Categories have "m" anywhere in their name?
Northwind Database:
● "install" the database by running the northwind.sql and northwind-data.sql
● NOTE: it will drop and recreate a schema called "northwind" if you wish to use a different
schema, edit the schema name used for "drop" and "use" queries.
1) How many suppliers are part of marketing?
2) (without using joins) can you find out how many orders were executed by Nancy
Freehafer?
3) Inspect the product table:
a) In what ways can you see the DDL query to create the table?
b) What is the primary key of the table?
c) Which columns cannot be set to NULL?
4) The 'Northwind Traders Fruit Cocktail' has been discontinued. Write a query that would
mark it as such.
5) Write a query that would discontinue all the pasta products.
6) We need to find which products require restocking. (Hint: find which products have more
"on order" than "in stock")
7) Of these products which one requires the most units ordered (for each product with less
in stock then on order, you would need to order enough to fill the order, which product
will the require the largest number?)
8) Which products cost $30 or More?
9) Find the profit for each unit of each product. (check the cost vs. the listed price)
10) What is the average unit profit?
11) What query would raise the price of all products by about 5 percent (i.e if a product costs
$100 it will raise to $105 if a product costs $25 it will raise to $30 etc)
12) How many canned products are there?
13) Count all the products that are limited to a minimum reorder quantity
14) EXTRA: Count all the products that are not limited to a minimum reorder quantity
15) EXTRA: How many orders haven't been shipped yet?